Post: quarkus.search.io series - standalone mapper (#2057)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2024-08-01-search-standalone-mapper.adoc

====

And then, with the entity loading binder defined, we can simply reference it within the `@SearchEntity` annotation:

[source, java]
====
----
@SearchEntity(loadingBinder = @EntityLoadingBinderRef(name = "guideLoadingBinder")) // <1>
@Indexed( ... )
public class Guide {
    @DocumentId
    public URI url;

    // other fields annotated with various Hibernate Search annotations,
    // e.g. @KeywordField/@FullTextField.
}
----
1. Use the CDI name to reference the entity loading binder defined earlier.
====

That is all that is needed to tie things together.
The only open question is how to implement the mass loading strategy.
Let's first review how the mass indexer works on a high level:

.High level mass indexer flow
image::mass-indexer.png[]

Implementing the mass loading strategy requires providing an identifier and entity loaders.
As already mentioned, in our case, we want a data stream that reads the information from files and does the reading part just once.
Hence, we want to avoid decoupling the id/entity reading steps.
While the identifier loader's contract suggests that it should provide the batch of identifiers to the sink,

> nothing prevents us from passing a batch of actual search entities instead.

Author: 🙈 👍🏻 
yeah ... I guess I was subconsciously trying to refer to the `@SearchEntity(...)` 😃 :
```java
@SearchEntity(...)
@Indexed(...)
public class Guide {
```

we have to somehow pass the stream of these guides to the identifier loader.
We could do this by using the `MassLoadingOptions options`.
These mass loading options provide access to the context objects passed to the mass indexer by the user.

[source, java]
====
----
@Inject
SearchMapping searchMapping; // <1>
// ...

var future = searchMapping.scope(Object.class) // <2>
    .context(GuideLoadingContext.class, guideLoadingContext) // <3>
    // ... <4>
    .massIndexer() // <5>
    .start(); // <6>
----
1. Inject `SearchMapping` somewhere in your application.
2. Create a scope, as usual.
3. Pass the context object to the mass indexer that knows how to read the files,
and is able to provide the batches of `Guide` search entities. See the following code snippet
for an example of how such context can be implemented.
4. Set any other mass indexer configuration options as needed.
5. Create a mass indexer.
6. Start the indexing process.
----
public class GuideLoadingContext {

    private final Iterator<Guide> guides;

    GuideLoadingContext(Stream<Guide> guides) {
        this.guides = guides.iterator(); // <1>
    }

>     public synchronized List<Guide> nextBatch(int batchSize) {

Reviewer: Is `synchronized` really necessary here? There's only one thread producing identifiers, IIRC.

Author: +1 yeah, only one thread loading the ids... 

https://github.com/hibernate/hibernate-search/blob/2126a7598159ca8a9fa59e2db18d718bed5cc13b/mapper/pojo-base/src/main/java/org/hibernate/search/mapper/pojo/massindexing/impl/PojoMassIndexingBatchIndexingWorkspace.java#L109-L113

I'll open a PR to make an update in search,quarkus.io ...

        List<Guide> list = new ArrayList<>();
        for (int i = 0; guides.hasNext() && i < batchSize; i++) {
            list.add(guides.next()); // <2>
        }
        return list;
    }
}
----
1. Get an iterator from the finite data stream of guides.
2. Read the next batch of the guides from the iterator. We are using the batch size limit
that we will retrieve from the mass-loading options
and checking the iterator to see if there are any more entities to pull.
====

> Now with having the way of reading the entities in batches from the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, having the way of reading the entities in batches from the stream
```

and knowing how to pass it to the mass indexer, implementing the identifier loader
can be as easy as:

[source, java]
====
----
@Override
public MassIdentifierLoader createIdentifierLoader(LoadingTypeGroup<Guide> includedTypes,
        MassIdentifierSink<Guide> sink, MassLoadingOptions options) {

>     GuideLoadingContext context = options.context(GuideLoadingContext.class); // <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    var context = options.context(GuideLoadingContext.class); // <1>
```

    return new MassIdentifierLoader() {
        @Override
        public void close() {
            // nothing to do
        }

        @Override
        public long totalCount() {
            return 0; // <2>
        }

        @Override
        public void loadNext() throws InterruptedException {
            List<Guide> batch = context.nextBatch(options.batchSize()); // <3>
            if (batch.isEmpty()) {
                sink.complete();  // <4>
            } else {
                sink.accept(batch); // <5>
            }
        }
    };
}
----
1. Retrieve the guide loading context that is expected to be passed to the mass indexer.
(e.g. `.context(GuideLoadingContext.class, guideLoadingContext)`)
2. We do not know how many guides there will be until we finish reading all the files

> and completing the indexing, so we'll just pass `0` here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and completing the indexing, so we'll just pass `0` here.
+
The information is not critical: it's only used to monitor progress.
```

+
NOTE: This is one of the areas that we plan to improve;
see https://hibernate.atlassian.net/browse/HSEARCH-5180[one of the improvements we are currently working on].
3. Request the next batch of guides. `options.batchSize()` will provide us with the value configured
for the current mass indexer.
4. If the batch is empty, it means that the stream iterator has no more guides to return.
Hence, we can notify the mass indexing sink that no more items will be provided by calling `.complete()`.
5. If there are any guides in the loaded batch, we'll pass them to the sink to be processed.
====

> To sum things up, here is a summary of which steps to take to index unknown number of search entities from a datasource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sum up, here is a summary of the steps to take to index an unknown number of search entities from a datasource
```

> from which we would want to read just once and do not do any entity lookups by id:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while reading each entity only once, and without relying on lookups by identifier:
```

1. Start by creating a loader binder and let Hibernate Search know about it via the `@SearchEntity` annotation.
2. Implement a mass loading strategy (`MassLoadingStrategy`) that includes:
  - An identifier loader that does all the heavy lifting and actually constructs entire entities.
  - An entity loader that simply passes through the entities loaded by the identifier loader to the indexing sink.

> 3. Supply any helpful services, resources, helpers, etc., that are used to load the data through the mass indexer context.

Reviewer: To avoid misunderstanding the end of the sentence ("load data through the mass indexer context") as "use the mass indexer context to load data":

```suggestion
3. Supply through the mass indexer context any helpful services, resources, helpers, etc., that are used to load the data.
```
